Here all the basic things i need to know for learning web development are:

1. Basic definitions
2. Browser developer tools
3. basic command lines for terminal
4. how websites work
5. HTTP/ HTTPS
6. connecting to github

Internet - It is a huge network of computers connected together. Messages to servers are sent through internet. It is like a road network.

Browser - It is a program that lets you access and view websites on the internet. It requests webpages from servers and receive HTML, CSS and JavaScript and turn the code into a visible website. It is like a delivery person. 

Server - computers that stores and serves the website, always running and waiting for request. It is like restaurant. 

APIs - Application programming interface connects the frontend to the backend. It is made while developing a full stack website using Express.js. It uses 4 types of 'requests' - GET, POST, PUT (to update data), DELETE.

---- BROWSER DEVELOPER TOOLS ----
These are built into browser for inspecting HTML, CSS , debugging JS, etc.

1. Elements tab - It shows HTML and CSS and we can temporarily change these.
2. Styles panel - It shows CSS applied to a particular element.
3. Console tab - It lets us converse with javascript for testing.
4. Network tab - It shows every request browser makes.
5. Appllication tab - It shows browser storage ( cloud and local storage).
6. Source tab - It shows javascript files loaded by website.

---- BASIC COMMAND LINES ----
used in terminal for git, node.js , react.js 
1. pwd - it shows where you currently are
2. ls - it shows files and folders in current location
3. cd - to move into a folder
4. cd . . - to go back one folder
5. mkdir - to create a new folder
6. code. - it opens current folder in vs code

---- HOW WEBSITES WORK ----
Step 1 : Type website address (URL) uniform resource locator
https://www.example.com/about
https is protocol, example is domain name, about is the current pages

Step 2 : Browser finds website
computers understand only numbers so URL converts into IP address (internet protocol address)
Browser asks DNS (domain name system) to find IP address. 
here IP address is like a contact number and DNS is like a contact Application

Step 3 : Browser connects to servers
Browser knows IP address so it contacts the server (sends HTTP request) e.g. - GET

Step 4 : Server receives request
receives, processes and prepares response

Step 5 : Server sends files back like HTML, CSS, JS but not backend

Step 6 : Browser builds the page 
Browser receives the files, reads HTML , applies CSS , runs javascript and displays the webpage. This process is Rendering.

Step 7 : User clicks a button
e.g. - user clicks login then browser sends request to server, request goes to backend

Step 8 : Backend talks to database
Database is organized storage
backend asks - does this user exits ?
database - yes or no 
then backend decides what to does

Step 9 : Response comes back
browser updates the page

How to make website public ?
My laptop uploads the code to cloud server (render, railway, versel)

---- HTTP/HTTPS ----
HTTP is a set of rules that browsers and servers use to communicate. Browser sends HTTP request and server sends HTTP response. HTTP defines format of request and response.

HTTPS is HTTP with encryption. In this browser sends encrypted data. HTTP methods that tell server what to do are GET and POST.

---- CONNECTION TO GITHUB ----
git is version control system. it takes snapshot of every change who and when it happened. it let us collaboate in projects and tracking every version of program.
code is uploaded on github (website).
 
1. to create git repository in project folder
: git init 

2. to check repository status ( shows untracked files, modified files, staged files and commit status)
: git status

3. configure git username and email
: git config --global user.name "Savi"
: git config --global user.email "3savilaller..."

4. add all files to staging area / it tells which files to include in the next commit
: git add.

5. create a commit (it saves snapshot of project)
: git commit -m "initial commit"

6. connect local project to github
: git remote add origin repository_URL

7. check connected repository (it shows repo is connected to project)
: git remote -v 

8. rename branch to main (renames current branch to main)
: git branch -M main

9. upload code to github (uploads local commits to github)
: git push -u origin main

After making changes in project -
git add.
git commit -m "describe change"
git push